# Assignment-2
Assignment 2
<b>Team Profile</b>

<b><i>Team Name</i></b>

<b><i>Personal Information</i></b>

Jesse Mesiti, s3728420. Has a background in maths and science, as well as sport and i.t. All of these are from leisure time activities and subjects studied in school. Hobbies varied including anything from health and fitness (gym), to sports (mostly soccer and football) and to computers. Interest in I.T is aimed towards robots and computers once again, in how they work and how they are put together. I.T experience is found exclusively in years studying the subject, and leisure time activities - in this case it was the building of a computer in 2015, except for that not much however.

<b><i>Team Profile</i></b>
<i>Jesse</i> 
<p>http://www.educationplanner.org/students/self-assessments/learning-styles-quiz.shtml?event=results&A=6&V=8&T=6
https://www.16personalities.com/entp-personality</p>

<b><i>Ideal Jobs</i></b>

Cybersecurity-Glenn

Autonomous vehicles-Lin
Autonomous vehicles
2016 started the new era of the self-driving technology, by using laser radar, ultrasonic sensor, camera, GPU all coded and assembled to the vehicles, they implement part of Autonomous vehicles capability. Currently, Autonomous vehicles technology is still at the laboratory stage; universities, full-fledged software companies or automobile manufacturers are mainly conducting those development activities, and “self-driving” functions, for example like tesla’s vehicles can be assessable by using GPS navigation and visual navigation through multiple active cameras around those vehicles.

<b>IT Technologies</b>

<i>Jesse Mesiti</i>

Robots – Robots, in the broadest sense is the term coined to any man-made device that is capable of performing a task (or tasks) semi autonomously. The word robot is derived from the Czech term ‘Robota’ meaning ‘forced work or labour’ and in essence is a direct indication on a robot’s purpose. Whether they are programmed to act autonomously or controlled remotely, robots exist for the sole reason of performing tasks that would otherwise be tedious, dangerous or difficult for a human to. Robots are usually associated with a robotic human-esque machine, but they are everything from this (the pinnacle of the technology) to a small invention in the shape of a box (the humble beginning). This humble beginning was in the Unimate, the first programmable robot. It was installed to work in a factory in 1961 and its purpose was to move hot pieces of metal, which was normally a dangerous task for a human to be doing. 

The prospect of robots exploded shortly after this invention, a mere 5 years later in 1966 Shakey the robot was created. Shakey the Robot was different to all others who shared the robot term for a variety of reasons, other robots up to Shakey would have to be instructed on each individual step whereas Shakey could analyze commands and break them down into individual commands itself. Shakey was a stack of gear containing drive wheels on the bottom, a push bar and cats whiskers bump sensors (an image shown below). Through this gear the robot was able to be given general instructions, such as "move the block onto the table" and once it had received the instructions Shakey would reason how to carry out and complete the task. In the case of the move block instruction, Shakey would quite possibly look around the room, identify the block and then the table, and assess how to get the block onto the table, including navigating around any obstacles in the room that would prevent it from doing so.

Robots have, however come a long way since Shakey. In existence today there are various robots that exhibit the surreal power that this technology possesses, a few of these are Asimo, Petma and Actroid-Sit. Asimo is a robot designed by Honda that can walk and run like a human would, whilst also being capable of performing basic tasks like holding a platter and serving food. Petman is a robot designed to test clothing that protects against hazardous chemicals, the robot tests this by balancing, walking and generally doing a great range of human-esque movements all whilst being exposed to the aforementioned chemicals. Finally, Actroid-Sit is a rather unnerving humanoid looking robot that functions autonomously, talking and interacting with people. It features the ability to maintain eye contact and gesture with and to the person it is currently interacting with. Actroid-Sit can also comprehend sign language and when interrupted will stop and respond to the new interaction. 

Robots in this current day are used for a variety of reasons, the main two being both robots used to stretch the boundaries in our knowledge of artificial intelligence, henceforth coined as research robots and robots used within companies and corporations to carry out mundane and one dimensional jobs, henceforth coined industry robots. Industry robots are generally large and unlike the research counterparts do not resemble their human creators, they are generally a single segment like an arm or hammer that is programmed to do a single task, or multiple smaller ones. These tasks can be things such as spray painting a panel of a car on a conveyor belt. Industry robots are used to increase the output and efficiency of the company they are implemented within, and whilst we might see changes in their integration and implementation they are complete for the most part. Research robots on the other hand are still at the summit of their development. Research robots are ones such as Actroid and Asimo, in which they are complex, human-like machines that are programmed to carry out a variety of different tasks and interact in ways that seem sci-fi like. These interactions are things like the eye contact and sign language seen in Actroid and the running seen in Asimo. Unlike the industry robots, research robots will see rapid changes and improvements in the next few years. People working within artificial intelligence will continue to push the borders of robotics until they believe they have reached the pinnacle, but as many would tell you – robotics is an ever changing field where the possibilities are nigh on endless, as such as technology continues to grow and improve so will knowledge and application. 

Although robotic technology is especially impressive in this day and time, we can only expect it to keep growing and become even more impressive as the years pass and technology becomes more acute. Sooner or later the more monotonous tasks of every day life will be passed onto an a.i or robot to manage and administrate, much like the technology that already exists in programs like Cortana and Siri, as such the impact of robots on modern life will be drastic, like many things the introduction of automated machinery will have both positive and negative implications on the everyday life of humans. Some tasks will become more efficient, and some tasks will have their human workers replaced with a robot counterpart. This has already become a reality in many of the larger corporations where robots are implemented into the manufacturing process to increase output, whilst this hasn’t had too much of an implication on the labour force with the widespread use of automation and this technology becoming more accessible some time in the near future even smaller corporations will begin to implement robots within their manufacturing process. This is where a drastic reduction in the labour force will be seen. 

While without a doubt robots threaten human employment in mundane labour tasks there are some things that will never be within risk of replacement. A big factor of robots is that they lack emotions - human emotions such as empathy, personality, touch and communication are vital parts of many jobs and without them they job itself is nothing, especially for some smaller businesses where they will survive off of the development of long term relationships and interactions with customers. There is also things like cost and resources that come into play when thinking of these sort of things. So whilst robots seem to be a more efficient and effective way of doing things, in some scenarios they are nothing less than impractical. 

In everyday life robots will change a variety of things, but oppositely some things will remain the same. As I am headed (hopefully) for an occupation in engineering, robots will affect the way that my job is administered and carried out. Many tasks will be owed to the use of robots, whether they be for calculations or demonstrations and as time progresses more and more tasks will be able to be administered and handled out by an artificial intelligence, so in the work mind frame robots will change daily life although the limitations outlined in the paragraph above would still apply. This would be a given for friends and family working in all other manufacturing and development fields of work as well. Within leisure time, robots will also have some implications, we can already see this in programs such as Cortana and Siri. When this technology becomes more accessible and widespread and further coupled with ever-growing artificial intelligence technology it will soon make its way into more everyday aspects of life (aside from computers and phones as Cortana and Siri are). These everyday aspects would be seen in trivial yet essential tasks like turning the lights on and off via voice, or turning on the oven. Something similar to just this can be seen in Alexa (a voice activated/controlled robot that plays music, makes reminders ect.) which proves that the technology is slowly making its way into the everyday lives of people all around the world. In saying this, the way we live our everyday lives will be changed and shaped by the prowess of the artificial intelligence we currently have access to. All these daily tasks will be inextricably linked with robots, just like it was with electricity a few centuries ago. 




